# Hough Transform

# Abstract:

	The goal of this project is to implement the Hough transform function which seeks aligned coordinates in an image that generate lines. The input image is converted to its edged version which is required prior to applying the Hough transform on that image. The concept of Hough transform is to essentially extract features of an image. Through applying the technique of Hough transform, it is useful for detecting any parametric curves, such as lines, circles, and ellipses of an object; however, our goal is primary focused on lines detection. Moreover, when given a set of edge points, the algorithm will be able to find the most prominent lines that effectively describe a set of data. The objective is to implement the Hough transform function with three parameters; specifically, rho, theta and accumulator, that will be tested among the test scripts and to generate the results from running test_random_line.m  three times. Finally, we conclude by discussing the most difficult aspect of implementing Hough transform in our discussion results section.

# Technical discussion:

The implementation required for Hough transform is an empty row times column (dimension is equivalent to the amount of unknown parameters) matrix accumulator which detects the existence of a line represented by the equation rho = x*cos(theta) + y*cos(theta). Essentially, the Hough transform algorithm determines the existence of a line within the neighborhood pixels and increments the accumulator based on the parameters of rho and theta. By discovering local maxima in the accumulator space, we will be able to obtain and extract those lines. Figure 10.32 shown below represents: a) two different coordinates (Xi,Yi) and (Xj,Yj) which constitute a straight line essentially in the form of a line equation (y = ax+b) and the theta angle between the line and the image (x,y). b) the intersections of those two coordinates mentioned and their representation of given parameters in terms of sinusoidal waves. c) transcends from (x,y) image coordinate system to a new (theta,rho) system where theta and rho are discretized; essentially this represents the hough transformation of an image via the rho equation and the sinusoidal curves in this accumulator cell will be in terms of “votes” and these votes are proportionally to the amount of lines accumulated. Finally, we will determine the maxima vote(s); the lines that produce the greatest intersections

# Result:

The most difficult aspect of implementing the Hough transform function was getting the accumulator matrix to work. At the beginning, I ran into numerous subscript indices error which prevented me from testing my program. Furthermore. My theta and rho values were extremely off compared to the actual results due to not casting my computations properly. Part A of the project was quite straightforward as the instruction provided all the initializations required for the implementation. Thus, I spent majority of my time on part B of the project. Overall, the results for rho and theta came out significantly close to the expected results with values 1~2 pixels/degrees off at times. The provided test matlab files were useful for debugging and ensuring that my values were computed accurately, therefore these elements were essential in the computation process. Based on the results from testing test_random_line.m three times, all three estimated values of theta agree with the true values and with rho values off by 1 on two of the three results. On the other hand, my hough transform function was tested on the test_real_image.m and the result closely resembled the ones shown in Lab5. Overall, the computed values adhere closely to the true results.
